=pod

=head1 NAME

Thrift::API::HiveClient - A Hadoop Hive client using the Thrift API

=head1 VERSION

version 0.001

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

=head2 host

The host on which the hiveserver process is running. Should be a
valid hostname or IP address. I<required>, I<immutable>

=head2 port

The TCP port on which the hiveserver process is listening. Should be
a valid port number. I<required>, I<immutable>

=head1 METHODS

=head2 new( ... )

Standard object constructor. Arguments are the attributes described above. For example:

  my $cli = Thrift::API::HiveClient->new( host => 'localhost', port => 10000 );

=head2 connect( )

Connect to the configured hiveserver.

=head1 THRIFT API METHODS

These are the methods exposed by the Thrift API. The HiveClient object simply acts
as a proxy for all the methods available on the (underlying) ThriftHiveClient object.

However, for your convenience, all these methods are documented here, as well as I can.

=head2 execute( $hql )

The given HQL statement is sent to the hiveserver and executed. The results can be
retrieved by using the fetch* methods.

  $cli->execute('select * from foo');

=head2 fetchAll( )

All results from a previous call to execute() are returned as an array

  my $res = $cli->fetchAll();

=head2 getClusterStatus( )

Returns an object (blessed hash) showing some of the status of the Hadoop cluster.

=head2 get_fields( $db_name, $tbl_name );

Returns an array of FieldSchema objects with info about the fields in the given
table in the given database.

  my $tbl_schema = $cli->get_fields( 'default', 'foo' );

=head1 AUTHOR

Stephen R. Scaffidi <sscaffidi@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2012 by Stephen R. Scaffidi.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

